---
title: CS 1110 - Introduction to Computing Using Python
layout: article
---

## General Information

Intro level course in Computer Science. Either this course or another CS 111x course is required for all engineering students (Typically this course or CS 1112 is taken). Taught in Java prior to Fall 2012, and currently taught in Python.

## Prerequisites

None, assumes zero programming experience

## Topics Covered

  - Variables and Types
  - Methods
  - Control Statements (if/elif/else)
  - Recursion
  - For and While Loops
  - Classes
  - Inheritance
  - Method overloading
  - Operator overloading
  - Loop Invariants

## Workload

Light, just don't leave the projects until the last minute.
Short weekly labs and 7 projects. If you don't have programming experience the only one that might take a while is assignment 7.

## General Advice

  - (For Non-CS Majors) Don't underestimate your abilities, if you work at it it's no harder than any other class
  - Don't leave the projects until the last minute, you'll make mistakes
  - Take Codecademy Python course to be familiar with the thought process
  - While they are tedious, you can complete every project on your own.

## Testimonials

I took it with Walker White in Fall 2013, and it was a really great class. The labs were a bit tedious at times, but they did help teach the material. Would recommend doing the labs beforehand so as to make better use of required time with the consultants.

I took it with Walker White in Fall 2016, and I really liked his lecturing style. The projects are definitely doable with one person, I solo'd A6 and A7 in 5 and 7 hours respectively. It seemed like loop invariants were the topic that people had the most difficulty on, and it's the last concept covered in the class.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2013 | TR 9:05 - 9:55 AM and TR 11:15 AM - 12:05 PM | Steve Marschner and Lillian Lee | A- | <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/CS1110/2013sp/> |
|Fall 2012 | TR 9:05 - 9:55 AM and TR 11:15 AM - 12:05 PM | Walker White | B | <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/CS1110/2012fa/> |
