---
title: CS 1114 - Introduction to Computing Using MATLAB and Robotics
layout: article
---

## General Information

An honors level introduction to Computer Science. While it has Robotics in the title, the focus is less on robots and more on computer vision, which is one of the more interesting problems in robotics anyway.

## Prerequisites

Interest in math, and some exposure to programming. The latter is not vital - most don't have much programming experience, and the course staff is always there to help you.

## Topics Covered

 - MATLAB
 - Basic Data Structures
 - Basic Graph Algorithms
 - Some linear algebra
 - Computer Vision techniques
 - SIFT
 - Markov Chains

## Workload

Three prelims (which are generally quite easy if you follow the lectures), about five assignments, random quizzes (very easy if you have any idea what's going on in class), and a final project. It sounds like a lot, but it's relatively manageable if you start assignments early.

## General Advice

The robots are notoriously unreliable. Avoid using them whenever possible (i.e., in a final project). They will run out of battery very quickly, especially during Fridays, when many people are trying to use them at the same time.

You demo your projects to TAs, rather than submit code. Demo before Friday to avoid the rush.

## Testimonials

If you're at all considering CS, take this class to learn what CS really is. I thought I knew what CS was before this course, and I was very much mistaken. This course convinced me to be a CS major, along with several other people I know. Don't let the choice of MATLAB scare you away.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
 | Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
 | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
 | Spring 2009 | - | Noah Snavely | A- | <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs1114/2009sp/> |

## Resources
