---
title: INFO/CS 1300—Introductory Design and Programming for the Web
wikilinks: ["CS 1300", "INFO 1300"]
layout: article
---

## General Information

Intro level course in Information Science and Computer Science (crosslisted under both departments). Required course for all Information Science majors. Taught with HTML, CSS, and PHP.

## Prerequisites

None, assumes zero programming experience

## Topics Covered

  - HTML & CSS markup, syntax, debugging
  - HTML(5) elements, markup
  - CSS classes, IDs, selectors, and specific terminology
  - Best practices for HTML & CSS
  - Visual design principles & ideas
  - Responsive design for variable browser and device size, type, resolution
  - Document Object Module presentation, editing, interaction with HTML, CSS
  - Introduction to PHP as it interacts with frontend code
  - Code partials/templates (include/require) (PHP)
  - Control Statements (if/elif/else) (PHP)
  - Functions (PHP)
  - Iterative and recursive loops (PHP)

## Workload

Class is being changed for Fall 2016 semester to be composed of 10 small assignments, versus 3 large projects with relevant milestones. Do not put assignments off until the last minute; see a TA if you need help.

## General Advice

  - Attend lecture and take notes; while there are lots of online resources for web design, learning things the way it was taught in lecture may save you trouble later if some small nuance comes up.
  - Give your best effort to the class and don't do assignments at the last minute. It's not possible to get a grade you're comfortable with by submitting assignments the day before/of.
  - Start assignments early and go to office hours if you need help. If you go to OH when it's quiet, it'll be like having a one-on-one tutor for free.
  - Download an editor that you will like using and doesn't give you problems. Recommended editors are Atom, Brackets, Notepad++, Sublime.

## Testimonials

I took this course with Dan Cosley in Fall 2014 and enjoyed it greatly. The projects were time consuming, but not difficult in nature as long as you started early. Professor & TA were approachable and eager to help with the class.
I also TA'ed the course Fall 2015, with Steve Paling. He has a different teaching style that some people are not fans of, but he's much better one-on-one than in lecture.

Most of the class topics are easily accessible online; I recommend playing around with websites and webpages on your own time, and using the class to check best practices and ask questions. I found the Apple Fest Website redesign project to be very good practice in mock client work. If you are already experienced in the class topics via internships or projects, I don't recommend taking this class as it is very geared towards those who are absolute beginners. It would be better in that case to take INFO 2300 directly.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Piazza Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2015 | MW 12:20pm - 1:10pm | Steve Paling | A- | https://info1300.coecis.cornell.edu/ |
| Fall 2014 | MW 2:30pm - 3:20pm | Dan Cosley | ? | https://info1300.cs.cornell.edu (link does not work) |
