---
title: CS 2770 - Excursions in Computational Sustainability
layout: article
---

## General Information

Crosslisted as INFO2770 and AEM2770; Counts as SBA Liberal Studies requirement; Offered in Spring.

Taught by Carla Gomes and Bart Selman (with other guest lecturers), this course revolves around using computational concepts (AI, graphs, networks, algorithms...) to formulate and solve sustainability problems. As described in officially:

 >The goal of the course is to introduce students to a range of sustainability challenges and to computational methods that can help address such challenges. Sustainability topics include sustainable development, biodiversity and wildlife conservation, poverty mitigation, food security, renewable resources, energy, transportation, and climate change.

Material is mostly applied computer science, with focus on fundamental concepts (and sometimes toned-down 4000-level concepts).

## Prerequisites

Basic probability theory and calculus - stuff most STEM students learn in high school. No programming experience needed, none used in the class either.

## Topics Covered

- Fundamental CS algorithms/concepts applied on real-life problems.
- Set covering, Dijkstra's algorithm, Trees and their wonderful structures
- Machine Learning (Random Forests, Logistic Regression, K-means) -- R used to execute given code.
- Everything with a touch of sustainability: economy problems, climate change, ecology, material science etc.
- No Programming, Some Math.

## Workload

Organization:
- 6-8 assignments in total
- 1 in-class prelim (midterm)
- 1 Mini-Project and Blog (basically summary/proposal for the Mini-Project)
- 1 Take-home final 

Easy and manageable for most people. The class is more geared towards helping unexperienced (in CS) AEM students understand the impact of computing on other disciplines. It's a breeze for most CS people if they have taken/are concurrently taking CS2110 and/or CS 2800. 

Assignments are involving because the test the hardest part of the course - problem formulation, which Prof. Gomes (primary instructor) stressed on most. Even the hardest part is easy if you do assignments diligently, making the prelim and take-home final easy.

## General Advice

- Contrary to other core CS2xxx classes' structure, CS2770 is more flexible and easier. The material is very interdisciplinary, and you learn how to formulate real-life problems with a computing/mathematical base and solve using simple CS algorithms.
- No need for Office Hours, if you go to lectures. Frankly, no need to study anymore for any exam in this class if you go to lectures.
- Small class (~50 people), easy A, nice alternative to Networks (CS2850).
- Take Freshman (recommended) or Sophomore Spring.

## Testimonials

(Took Spring 2017) Prof. Gomes uses lots of CS concepts like Optimization, Machine Learning, NP vs P, Graph Theory etc. to give an introduction to interdisciplinary computing. I found the class very exciting because it showed me the POWER of computing (that could be an alternative class description). The material was interesting (often engaging), and handy in/similar to other classes' material. On the other hand, the class can seem slow and boring because of a topic's vagueness as the instructors don't go in depth ("Excursions" in the name makes sense). This approach is mostly for AEM students, to make it manageable for everyone. Unfortunately and ironically, not many students take this class, and most CS students don't even know it exists. This can be an advantage for those who take this class... (you know what I mean)

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2015 | TR 1:25 - 2:40 PM | Carla Gomes, Jon Conrad, Bart Selman | -- | -- |
| Spring 2016 | TR 1:25 - 2:40 PM | Carla Gomes, Bart Selman | -- | -- |
| Spring 2017 | TR 1:25 - 2:40 PM | Carla Gomes, Bart Selman | A- | -- |
