---
title: CS 4786/5786 - Machine Learning for Data Science
wikilinks: ["CS 4786/5786", "CS 5786"]
layout: article
---

## General Information

An introductory course in machine learning, with a focus on data modeling and related methods and learning algorithms for data sciences.

## Prerequisites

- Probability Theory (BTRY 3080, ECON 3130, MATH 4710, or strong performance in ENGRD 2700 or equivalent) 
- Linear Algebra (MATH 2940 or equivalent) 
- CS2110 or equivalent programming proficiency

## Topics Covered

CS 4786 focuses on [Unsupervised Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unsupervised_learning).
Topics include:

- Dimensionality Reduction (PCA, CCA, Random Projection)
- Clustering (K-Means, Single-Link, Spectral)
- Probabilistic Modeling (Mixture Models, Hidden Markov Models, EM Algorithms)

## Workload

6 assignments, 2 Kaggle projects, 0 prelims, 0 finals

If you have a background in ML or strong knowledge of probability, the assignments
may be light, but otherwise start early just in case. Projects can be a heavy
workload, but at least you have a team. 

## General Advice

- Go to office hours for assignments
- Start early on everything, especially the projects!
- If Kaggle's format hasn't changed, you get a number of submissions per day. Use them!
- Even if you do great on Kaggle, don't skimp on the writing quality of your report.
- Even though there aren't exams, try to review the lectures so you can get the most out of the class!
- Python has a lot of awesome libraries for ML like numpy and scikit-learn.

## Testimonials

While the class was hard for me, the format of the class
was enjoyable. Even though at one point I spent two days straight locked in my room trying to
implement a working Hidden Markov Model, I learned a lot about machine learning
the whole time.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Enrollment | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2017 | TR 11:40 AM - 12:55 PM | Karthik Sridharan | -  | - | <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs4786/2017fa/> |
| Fall 2016 | TR 11:40 AM - 12:55 PM | Karthik Sridharan | A  | 92 | <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs4786/2016fa/> |
