---
title: CS 6360—Educational Technology
wikilinks: ["CS 6360", "CS6360"]
layout: article
---

## General Information

A graduate level course on using technology in education.

## Prerequisites

Formally: 3110

Informally: are you capable of designing and building, from the ground up, a (possibly quite large) software project in your language of choice? You will also likely want to have an idea of a team to work with.

## Topics Covered

- Concreteness Fading
- Automatic Grading
- Interaction Modalities
- Problem Generation
- Engagement
- Intelligent Tutoring Systems
- Learner Modeling
- Teaching Programming
- Teaching Language
- CMS (yes, our CMS)
- Sensors
- Peer Grading
- Machine Teaching
- Minecraft!
- Summarization
- Assessment

## Workload

Quite heavy because of the project, though this will vary. Most classes revolve around discussing a paper, which you should have read and commented on beforehand (turning in a ¾-page writeup to CMS). The project has four major milestones: the proposal, alpha prototype, beta, and final version, spaced out throughout the semester. The final version also involves testing the project with actual users.

## General Advice

Your project will take 5x as much work as you estimate. Learn to cut down your vision to the bare essentials once you realize how much work is ahead of you.

## Testimonials

Just take it! This class covers a lot of interesting topics, from automatically grading Python assignments to peer grading in MOOCs to gamification in Duolingo. Plus, this is one of the few chances you'll get to build something of your own choice.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Time | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2016 | --- | Erik Andersen | --- | <https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/992725> |
| Fall 2016 | --- | Erik Andersen | --- | <https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/1039930> |
